whats up guys today I'll be showing you
how to create a simple graffiti style
text effect with a nice splash effect in
the background of it so what you're
going to want to do is you want to hit
file new then you'll want to just I'm
going to leave it as d factually i'm
going to change it to 640 by 480 you can
choose whatever you wish but i'm going
to choose this for the purposes of this
tutorial now that we have our first
layer as our background what we're going
to do is we're going to set our
foreground and background claire's
layers you can set your foreground or
background to whatever color foreground
or whatever color you wish I'm going to
use this orange color there's the HTML
notation number if you want to use that
to get the same color and I'm gonna set
the background to gray again you can set
that to whatever you wish just make it
so it goes good with the foreground cuz
we're going to be making great a
gradient effect with it next thing we're
going to do is we're gonna go to our
text well this is big a right here in
the tool box you're going to click on it
and then we're going to select our font
the font I'll be using is called
Amsterdam graffiti this is a special
font that i've downloaded extra and that
i will have the download link available
to you guys in the sub barf if you wish
to download it if you do not have it you
can use any font you wish to use right
now but it will not look as good so
right now we're going to set the font to
175 and then we're going to leave the
color as the foreground color and we're
going to sit in here we're going to
start typing Geographics pro now we're
going to Center this into the in the
background you don't have to do that but
I'm gonna do it you can have it up here
if you want down here it's up to you for
the purpose of this we're going to put
it right here close that box next we're
going to do is going to right click on
the text layer gonna say alpha 2
selection once we do that we're going to
hit new layer I'm going to call this
text grad so we're going to be adding a
gradient to the text no just hit OK
they're going to come over here your
gradient tool or your blend tool and you
make just leave everything normal if you
haven't messed with it just make sure
the shapes letter in the grade
is foreground to background then take
your tool and put it right above the
highest point highest text point and
hold ctrl and drag down to the lowest if
you can while holding ctrl it will be in
straight lines and that gives a nice
gradient effect to it and now you can
come up and say select none to deselect
the text next thing we can just delete
the original text layer since the
gradient layer is now what we'll be
working with so you just select it and
you hit to the trash can so now we'll be
adding a border to it and so we're going
to say alpha to selection and now we're
going to go up to new layer we're going
to call it text border now we're gonna
go to select and we're going to go down
to grow this time we're going to grow up
by six this will give a nice border
around the edges without overpowering
the text and we're going to fill this
with black or yeah you got to select
your paint here a bucket to a first side
about that and we're going to fill out
black and now that is done we're going
to take the text border we're going to
use this down there and put it below the
text gradient layer so that it looks
like that and now you can say select
oral you select none next thing we'll be
doing wheels will be using our Dodge
burn tool to be adding some graffiti
like paint drip effects to the text for
this they're going to text Graddick and
an alpha 2 selection that we're going to
go down to our Dodge burn tool right
here after this we're going to go down
to the type Dodge should be selected by
default but we're going to you want you
want to deselect that and select burn
now we go into our brushes the brush
shall be the brushes that i'm going to
be using for this again well we have it
available for you to download in the sub
bar if you wish or you can use what's
already you have or what's available to
you at the moment so we're just going to
select some little big so we're going to
scale down a little bit and that looks
about good now the more you click in one
spot the darker it gets if you click
once it's very light hard to see if you
click multiple times you see it gets
dark
I'm just going to click around change
the style up a little bit definitely got
to scale that down and that looks pretty
good what's going to leave it like that
very simple now we're going to go select
and back to none now we're going to make
it a layer we're going to make a new
layer above the background so you're
gonna select your background and you hit
new layer we're going to call this
graffiti because it's going to be a
graffiti behind the text if I can spell
it right there we go so now you want to
get your paintbrush tool and now for the
foreground color that's the color that's
going to be the the color of the
graffiti so I'm going to select a nice
blue here i think i'll select that one
and then i'm going to go down and find
one of the other brushes and i'm going
to definitely decrease this about 20 30
will go a little bigger it's okay if
it's off you know it can be cut off a
little bit and we're gonna go to another
one and put it on as well definitely
decrease this one a little more and
we're going to put it right about here
and actually I'm going to undo that you
can just take controls you going to do
it'll raise it up a little bit and that
looks pretty good that's very basic you
can even add some other effects here if
you wish i'm adding a little speaker up
top here you know very basic but very
simple next thing we can do the last
thing I always delete the background on
these type of things because I like
saving as dot PNG I like using them in
other products i'm working on i don't
want the background getting in the way I
just like that so now once we do that
we're going to file and we're going to
save as and I always save two copies I
have I save the first one has a dot X CF
so I'm gonna say G of X 2 X CF now
saving as a dot X CF enables you it
saves it with all these layers intact so
you can come back open it and you'll
have all these layers and you can keep
working with it the next thing I'll save
as is in a new folder i'll save as a dot
PNG or if you wish a dot jpg whatever
whatever you want we're going to save
that now this first box of pop so if you
just hit export
leave it as is hit export and then just
hit save on the next one again leaving
everything default and now it's saved
and that will make it so if you open
that back up in here it will just be as
one layer so you can't edit it out and
that there you have it that's your basic
graffiti style tutorial using GIMP
thanks for watching I hope you enjoyed
hope you learn something and subscribe
if you haven't liked the video and now
happy putting up more tutorial videos in
the near future